content/5_using_kubecost/51_usecases.en.md, before:

---
title : "Use Cases for Kubecost"
chapter: false
weight : 51
---

# Overview

Kubecost has 3 primary use cases:

1. Gain visibility into what is consuming Kubernetes resources- and driving the costs.
2. Understand if those resources are being use efficiently.
3. Identify areas to save money.

Kubecost is an API first solution - meaning that everything available in the UI is also available via a API endpoint.

This lab will focus on the UI.

The main overview page show high-level trends and a summary of what this instance of Kubecost is managing.

![overview](/images/kubecost-overview.png)

To understand which resources are consuming the most resources in the monitored clusters, click Allocations in the right navigation tree.

In this view we can aggregate the resources by a variety of ways:
 - Kubernetes constructs: cluster, namespace, node, controllers, services, pod, label
 - Logical constructs mapped to labels: Environment, Department, Owner, Team

![aggregations](/images/kubecost-aggregations.png)

This view can be customized based on given requirements. Some of the most useful settings:
 - Idle Costs: idle costs are unused node capacity. Sharing by node will distribute this cost to the resources using that node. This is useful in a 100% chargeback model
 - Chart: Change the display based to Cost over time, Efficiency over time and other options

![allocation-settings](/images/kubecost-report-settings.png)

Within the UI, note that you can click the blue link to open a detailed view of that resources, or click the row to drill into that resource.

![allocation-drill-in](/images/kubecost-drill-in.png)

Commit message:

adding some additional info to the KC usecases page

content/5_using_kubecost/51_usecases.en.md, after:

---
title : "Use Cases for Kubecost"
chapter: true
weight : 31
---

# Overview

Kubecost has 3 primary use cases:

1. Gain visibility into what is consuming Kubernetes resources - and driving the costs.
2. Understand if those resources are being use efficiently and optimization options.
3. FinOps use cases such as cost savings, chargeback and showback.

Kubecost is an API first solution - meaning that everything available in the UI is also available via a API endpoint.

This portion of the lab will focus on the UI.

The main overview page show high-level trends and a summary of what this instance of Kubecost is managing.

![overview](/images/kubecost-overview.png)

To understand which resources are consuming the most resources in the monitored clusters, click Cost Allocations in the navigation tree on the left hand side of the screen.

The Cost Allocation page is where we drive the primary busisness objectives, chargeback and showback.  We achieve this by several different aggreations methods over a given date range, giving flexability to the user on how to display the data.

We aggregate the resources in a variety of ways, below are the few most common:
 - Kubernetes constructs: cluster, namespace, node, controllers, services, pod, label
 - Logical constructs mapped to labels: Environment, Department, Owner, Team
 - Date Range
 - Filtering via namespaces, labels, service, nodes, pods, etc

![aggregations](/images/kubecost-aggregations.png)

Before we start playing with the view, let's define what is shown in the table on the Cost Allocation Page.  Let's Aggregate by Namespace and take a look at the colum headers listed below:
 - CPU: The total cost of CPU allocated to this object
 - GPU: The cost of GPUs requested by this object, as measured by resource limits
 - RAM: The total cost of memory allocated to this object, e.g. namespace or deployment
 - PV: The cost of persistent storage volumes claimed by this object.
 - Network: The cost of network traffic based on internet egress, cross-zone egress, and other billed transfer. Note: these costs must be enabled.
 - LB: The cost of cloud-service load balancer that has been allocated.
 - Shared: The cost of shared resources allocated to this tenant. This field covers shared overhead, shared namespaces, and shared labels.
 - Efficiency: The percentage of requested CPU & memory dollars utilized over the measured time window. Values range from 0 to above 100 percent.
 - Total Cost: The Total Cost


Now that we have that out of the way, lets dive into the differnent views available for the chart. 

This view can be customized based on given requirements. Some of the most useful settings:
 - Idle Costs: Idle costs are resources that are provisioned but not being fully used or requested by a tenant. Sharing by node will distribute this cost to the resources using that node. This is useful in a 100% chargeback model
 - Chart: Change the display based to Cost over time, Efficiency over time and other options

![allocation-settings](/images/kubecost-report-settings.png)

Within the UI, note that you can click the blue link to open a detailed view of that resources, or click the row to drill into that resource.  This give you the ability to drill down to the continer level of a given resource to view CPU, RAM, Efficiency and Savings for a given resource.  When you get to the container level you can see where Kubecost starts making recommendations on Breakdown on container resources that can lead to savings.

![allocation-drill-in](/images/kubecost-drill-in.png)
